Write about the chain cover a little. (#13602)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/auth_chain_difference_algorithm.md

## Chain Cover Index

Synapse computes auth chain differences by pre-computing a "chain cover" index
for the auth chain in a room, allowing us to efficiently make reachability queries
like "is event `A` in the auth chain of event `B`?". We could do this with an index
that tracks all pairs `(A, B)` such that `A` is in the auth chain of `B`. However this
would be prohibitively large, scaling poorly as the room accumulates more state
events.

Instead, we break down the graph into *chains*. A chain is a subset of a DAG
with the following property: for any pair of events `E` and `F` in the chain,

> the chain contains a path `E -> F` or a path `F -> E`. If we ensure that each
> persisted event belongs to exactly one chain, we can keep answer reachability
> queries by tracking of how the chains are connected to one another. Doing so

Author: Oops. How about:

```suggestion
the chain contains a path `E -> F` or a path `F -> E`. Synapse ensures that each
persisted event belongs to exactly one chain, and tracks how the chains are
connected to one another. This allows us to efficiently answer reachability
queries. Doing so
```

> queries by tracking of how the chains are connected to one another. Doing so

Reviewer: Looks reasonable! Let's re-line wrap the following lines as well.

uses less storage than tracking this on an event-by-event basis, particularly
when we have fewer and longer chains. See

> Jagadish, H. (1990). [A compression technique to materialize transitive closure](https://doi.org/10.1145/99935.99944).
> *ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS)*, 15*(4)*, 558-598.

for the original idea or

> Y. Chen, Y. Chen, [An efficient algorithm for answering graph
> reachability queries](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDE.2008.4497498),
> in: 2008 IEEE 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, April 2008,
> pp. 893–902. (PDF available via [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=Y.%20Chen,%20Y.%20Chen,%20An%20efficient%20algorithm%20for%20answering%20graph%20reachability%20queries,%20in:%202008%20IEEE%2024th%20International%20Conference%20on%20Data%20Engineering,%20April%202008,%20pp.%20893902.).)

for a more modern take.

> In practical terms, the chain cover assigns every event a
> *chain ID* and *sequence number* (e.g. `(5,3)`), and maintains a map of *links*
> between chains (e.g. `(5,3) -> (2,4)`) such that `A` is reachable by `B` (i.e. `A`
> is in the auth chain of `B`) if and only if either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practical terms, the chain cover assigns every event a
*chain ID* and *sequence number* (e.g. `(5,3)`), and maintains a map of *links*
between events in chains (e.g. `(5,3) -> (2,4)`) such that `A` is reachable by `B`
(i.e. `A` is in the auth chain of `B`) if and only if either:
```

1. `A` and `B` have the same chain ID and `A`'s sequence number is less than `B`'s
   sequence number; or
2. there is a link `L` between `B`'s chain ID and `A`'s chain ID such that

>    `L.start_seq_no` <= `B.seq_no` and `A.seq_no` <= `L.end_seq_no`.

Reviewer: This bit's still a little unclear (but I did manage to understand it in the end).

Up until point 2, I wasn't sure whether sequence numbers were namespaced to chains and it was unclear why links included a sequence number.

Not sure how to improve it though.

Reviewer: Makes sense! Turns out I was _really_ confused about sequence numbers. Somehow I thought that 2. implied they were global.

## Chain Cover Index

Synapse computes auth chain differences by pre-computing a "chain cover" index
for the auth chain in a room, allowing us to efficiently make reachability queries
like "is event `A` in the auth chain of event `B`?". We could do this with an index
that tracks all pairs `(A, B)` such that `A` is in the auth chain of `B`. However, this
would be prohibitively large, scaling poorly as the room accumulates more state
events.

Instead, we break down the graph into *chains*. A chain is a subset of a DAG
with the following property: for any pair of events `E` and `F` in the chain,
the chain contains a path `E -> F` or a path `F -> E`. This forces a chain to be

> linear (without forks) e.g. `E -> F -> G -> ... -> H`. Each event in the chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linear (without forks), e.g. `E -> F -> G -> ... -> H`. Each event in the chain
```
